Jimmy Carter the 39th President of the
United States has become one of the
world's most prolific and respected
humanitarians whose work through the
Carter Center sees him traveling the
globe fostering peace fighting disease
and promoting democracy it was this
unwavering belief in peaceful resolution
that cost him his presidency storing the
embassy
hostages in Tehran tonight and there's
almost nothing the United States can do
about it do you feel there were any
choices you would have made differently
I think I would have been reelected
easily if I had been able to rescue our
hostages from the Iranians and everybody
asked me what would you do well I would
say I was saying one more helicopter
because I've had one more helicopter we
could have brought out not only that the
52 hostages but also brought up the
rescue team and when that failed and I
think that was a main factor they'd
brought about my failure to be reelected
so that's one thing I would change I
would say do something anything and he
said and then have them take a hostage
out one at a time one day and and
execute them in front of the world you
know he he was firm but it was tough we
knew he would probably not probably not
be reelected he didn't give in so I was
proud of him but peace is very difficult
war is popular and I couldn't even your
wife Rosalyn was encouraging you to take
action was it hard to to not take
everyone's advice around you even your
wife said oh well I could have been
reelected if I take a military action
against Iran Ebert has shown it I was
strong and resolute and manly and so
forth but I think if I could have wiped
ran off the map with him at weapons that
we had but in the process a lot of
innocent people would have been killed
it probably including our hostages and
so I stood up against all that all that
advice and then eventually my prayers
were answered and every hostage came
home safe and free and so I think I made
the right decision in retrospect but it
was not easy at the time I think he was
incredibly unfairly judged I mean he was
ahead of his time when he was in the
White House and I think if it hadn't
been for the Iran hostage situation he
would have had a second term and I think
most likely would have been as well
respected for his time in office as for
his time outside the office do you feel
the American people have accepted that
now that it was the right decision I
think increasingly they have as more
facts are known
people look back on those times but
there's still a strong inclination in
our country to to take military actions
when I think it's not necessary
you left officer as you have said
involuntarily if you had been reelected
what would you have liked to have
accomplished I don't have any doubt that
if I had had another term in office I
could have implemented very firmly the
peace agreement that I negotiated with
Israel and its neighbors that was never
fully implemented so now 35 or 40 years
later we still have Israel not at peace
with its neighbors but my successors
were not very interested in in the
Mideast peace process not as deeply as I
was and that's one of the things that I
could have done differently